[Provisioner] Update ports for UP cluster (#2485)
skypilot-org/skypilot: docs/source/examples/ports.rst

.. code-block:: yaml

    # jupyter_lab.yaml
    resources:
      ports: 8888

    setup: pip install jupyter

    run: jupyter lab --port 8888 --no-browser --ip=0.0.0.0

In this example, by specifying :code:`ports` in the :code:`resources` section, SkyPilot will automatically open port 8888 on your cluster. The :code:`run` command will start the Jupyter Lab server on port 8888. To access the server, run:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ sky launch -c jupyter jupyter_lab.yaml

and look for the logs fo some output like:

.. code-block:: bash

    Jupyter Server 2.7.0 is running at:
        http://127.0.0.1:8888/lab?token=<token>

Replace the :code:`127.0.0.1` with the output of :code:`sky status --ip jupyter` and open your browser for the URL.

If you want to expose multiple ports, you can specify a list of ports or port ranges in the :code:`resources` section:

.. code-block:: yaml

    resources:
      ports:
        - 8888
        - 10020-10040
        - 20000-20010

SkyPilot also support opening ports through the CLI:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ sky launch -c jupyter --ports 8888 jupyter_lab.yaml

> Things You Should Know
> ----------------------

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Security and Lifecycle Considerations
-------------------------------------
```

Before you start opening ports, there are a few things you need to bear in mind:

> - **Public Accessibility**: Ports you open are exposed to the public internet. It means anyone who knows your VM's IP address and the opened port can try to access your service. Ensure you use security measures, like authentication mechanisms, to protect your services.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Public Accessibility**: Ports you open are exposed to the public internet. It means anyone who knows your VM's IP address and the opened port can access your service. Ensure you use security measures, like authentication mechanisms, to protect your services.
```

> - **Lifecycle Management**: SkyPilot retains the state of all opened ports, even after individual tasks have finished. The only instance when ports are automatically cleaned up is during cluster shutdown. At this moment, all ports that were opened during the cluster's active lifecycle are conclusively closed. Simultaneously, all corresponding firewall rules and security groups associated with these ports are cleaned up.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Lifecycle Management**: All opened ports are kept open, even after individual tasks have finished. The only instance when ports are automatically closed is during cluster shutdown. At shutdown, all ports that were opened during the cluster's lifespan are closed. Simultaneously, all corresponding firewall rules and security groups associated with these ports are also cleaned up.
```

- **Creating Web Services**: Whether you're setting up a web server, database, or another service, they all communicate via specific ports that need to be accessible.
- **Collaborative Tools**: Some tools and platforms may require port openings to enable collaboration with teammates or to integrate with other services.

Opening Ports for SkyPilot cluster
----------------------------------

SkyPilot makes the process of opening ports simple. Here's a basic example in YAML configuration to expose a Jupyter Lab server:

.. code-block:: yaml

    # jupyter_lab.yaml
    resources:
      ports: 8888

    setup: pip install jupyter

    run: jupyter lab --port 8888 --no-browser --ip=0.0.0.0

In this example, by specifying :code:`ports` in the :code:`resources` section, SkyPilot will automatically open port 8888 on your cluster. The :code:`run` command will start the Jupyter Lab server on port 8888. To access the server, run:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ sky launch -c jupyter jupyter_lab.yaml

and look for the logs fo some output like:

.. code-block:: bash

    Jupyter Server 2.7.0 is running at:
        http://127.0.0.1:8888/lab?token=<token>

Run

.. code-block:: bash

>     $ sky status -a jupyter

Reviewer: We may want to update this docs page with #2563 - let's use `sky status --ip` here?

Author: Done ;)

- **Creating Web Services**: Whether you're setting up a web server, database, or another service, they all communicate via specific ports that need to be accessible.
- **Collaborative Tools**: Some tools and platforms may require port openings to enable collaboration with teammates or to integrate with other services.

Opening Ports for SkyPilot cluster
----------------------------------

SkyPilot makes the process of opening ports simple. Here's a basic example in YAML configuration to expose a Jupyter Lab server:

.. code-block:: yaml

    # jupyter_lab.yaml
    resources:
      ports: 8888

    setup: pip install jupyter

    run: jupyter lab --port 8888 --no-browser --ip=0.0.0.0

In this example, by specifying :code:`ports` in the :code:`resources` section, SkyPilot will automatically open port 8888 on your cluster. The :code:`run` command will start the Jupyter Lab server on port 8888. To access the server, run:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ sky launch -c jupyter jupyter_lab.yaml

and look for the logs fo some output like:

.. code-block:: bash

    Jupyter Server 2.7.0 is running at:
        http://127.0.0.1:8888/lab?token=<token>

Run

.. code-block:: bash

>     $ sky status -a jupyter

Reviewer 2: We need to get #2439. The output of `sky status -a` can be quite overwhelming (too long).

Author: sure 🫡 I can work on that

> to get the :code:`HEAD_IP` of the cluster, replace the :code:`127.0.0.1` with the :code:`HEAD_IP` and open your browser for the URL.

Reviewer 2: This may look weird in the doc? Should we have the descriptions in the same line and the code block to be in its own line?

Also, it would be nice to show an example output for the `sky status -a jupyter`.

If you want to expose multiple ports, you can specify a list of ports or port ranges in the :code:`resources` section:

.. code-block:: yaml

    resources:
      ports:
        - 8888
        - 10020-10040
        - 20000-20010

SkyPilot also support opening ports through the CLI:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ sky launch -c jupyter --ports 8888 jupyter_lab.yaml

Things You Should Know
----------------------

Before you start opening ports, there are a few things you need to bear in mind:

- **Public Accessibility**: Ports you open are exposed to the public internet. It means anyone who knows your VM's IP address and the opened port can try to access your service. Ensure you use security measures, like authentication mechanisms, to protect your services.

> - **Lifecycle Management**: SkyPilot retains the state of all opened ports, even after individual tasks have finished. The rationale behind this is the uncertainty regarding whether tasks, once completed, left behind some backend programs that are still using these ports. Such situations are common when commands like :code:`docker run` or :code:`cmd &` are used, leaving tasks running in the background. To avoid potential disruption or connectivity issues, all previously opened ports remain accessible. The only instance when ports are automatically cleaned up is during cluster shutdown. At this moment, all ports that were opened during the cluster's active lifecycle are conclusively closed. Simultaneously, all corresponding firewall rules and security groups associated with these ports are cleaned up.

Reviewer 2: This is a bit too long and the detailed rationale looks unnecessary to me. We can just declare the fact that the ports will be accumulated and only cleaned up after shutting down.

> - **Network Costs**: Data transfer costs might be associated with cloud providers when data is sent in and out of your VM. Be aware of the potential costs, especially if you expect high traffic on your opened ports.

Reviewer 2: This seems not a problem with `ports`, should we leave this out?
